# forms
Websites generally consist of 3 main elements: paragraph text, lists
and forms. While paragraph text is generally straight forward to place
on a page, lists & forms require some more work. This section explains
everything you need to know to work with forms in Choo.

This guide assumes you're working from a project generated by
`create-choo-app`. This allows us to write inline CSS, which makes
examples a little simpler to read. However our goal is to provide you
with knowledge that translates to any setup - even if you choose not to
use Choo, Bankai or `create-choo-app` at a later point.

## How do forms work?
Before we dive into how forms work in Choo, let's dive into how forms
work on pages that don't use any JavaScript. A lot of the web was
designed to work without JavaScript, and to submit forms, you don't
need any JS at all. Knowing what the default behavior is of forms
allows us to build on top of it, rather than trying to rewrite
functionality that's already available to us.

### The Form Element
Forms are declared using the form tag. By themselves they don't do much, but they
have a few important attributes that are good to know about.

The first attribute is `method=""`. This tells the form which HTTP method to use. By
default it's set to `POST`, so often it's not needed to define this.

The second attribute is `action=""`. This attribute tells the form where to redirect
the page to when the submission was successful.

Forms also always should have an `id=""` attribute on them. This makes
them easier to debug, and shows up in the payload that's sent to the
server.

```html
<form id="login" action="/dashboard">
</form>
```

### The Input Element
Forms need data. And `<input>` elements provide that data. As a rule,
each `<input>` element has a `type=""` attribute, and an accompanying
`<label>` element. They also need a `name=""` and an `id=""`. That's
quite a bit of data required. But together it allows you to create a
wide range of input.

```html
<form id="login" action="/dashboard">
  <label for="username">username</label>
  <input id="username" name="username" type="text">
  <label for="password">password</label>
  <input id="password" name="password" type="password">
  <input type="submit" value="Login">
</form>
```

### Validating Input
Forms come with a wide range of validation built in. Probably the
biggest benefit is that it works on all platforms, with little effort.
It respects user settings such as font-size, and supports screen readers out of the box.

To validate the form's input fields, there's a few attributes we can use:
- `pattern` - validate the form's input field using a Regular Expression. For example
 `pattern="^.{1,15}$"` makes sure strings have a length of at least 1, and not more than 15.
- `required` - make sure that the field is filled in, and valid.
- `title` - the message to display if the `pattern` attribute is invalid. This is useful for users
  that can't read RegExes in their error messages (e.g. everyone).

Together these allow you to express a wide range of validation, and make sure your forms are filled
in correctly, in an accessible way. Let's see what that this looks like:

```html
<form id="login" action="/dashboard">
  <label for="username">username</label>
  <input id="username" name="username"
    type="text"
    required
    pattern=".{1,36}"
    title="Username must be between 1 and 36 characters long."
  >
  <label for="password">password</label>
  <input id="password" name="password"
    type="password"
    required
  >
  <input type="submit" value="Login">
</form>
```
